# SYLLABUS

This page contains the course syllabus, with details that will covered on each topic. 
##   The Complete Web Development Couse
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **WEB DEVELOPMENT FUNDEMENTALS**
    * Understand how websites work and how HTML, CSS, and Javascript work together.
    * Understand what the Internet is and how it works.
    * Start Coding with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
    * Learn and understand Git, Github, and version control.
    * Use the Terminal to exicute windows commands and bash commands.
    * Learn key troubleshooting and debugging skills to apply to your projects.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **HTML 5**
    * Learn the structure of HTML syntax to build your own websites.
    * Understand HTML boilerplate and doctypes.
    * How to structure basic text within HTML.
    * How to create links using HTML.
    * How to structure HTML lists and create unordered/orderd lists.
    * How to insert images onto a webpage using HTML.
    * Understand the purpose/function of HTML tables.
    * How to use and choose the layout of a table.
    * Learn best practices when coding HTML.
    * Understand HTML forms and how to create a simple form.
    * How to create HTML divs and how to separate content for CSS Styling.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **CSS 3**
    * Understand what are cascading style sheets and how to implement custom style to your website.
    * How to use CSS selectors and properties to create custom styling.
    * Learn how to use inline, internal, and external CSS.
    * Learn best practices when coding with CSS.
    * Learn the structure of CSS syntax to build your own websites.
    * Learn about CSS sizing methods.
    * Understanding what style hierarchy and CSS specificity is and how to implement it.
    * Learn the different positioning systems such as static, relative, and absolute.
    * Fonts, text sizing, and how to use web safe fonts with CSS.
    * How to use CSS clear and float.
    * How to combin CSS selectors and understanding selector priority.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **BOOTSTRAP 5**
    * Learn the fundementals and importance of implementing responsive web design.
    * How to use Balsamiq to create a mockup or wireframe for your websites.
    * Fundemental and basics of UI design for websites.
    * How to implement the Bootstrap framework into your app.
    * Comprehensive understanding of the Bootstrap grid layout.
    * How to create Bootstrap containers to easily layout your website.
    * Learn how to implement multiple Bootstrap components such as buttons.
    * How to use Font Awesome to add unique symbols
    * Learn how to use cool and stylish prebuilt components from Bootstrap, such as carousels.
    * How to use Bootstrap navigation bar
    * How to create cards using Bootstrap
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **JAVASCRIPT ES12**
    * Fundementals of code and logic.
    * Learning how to create alerts and prompts.
    * Understanding Variables and Data Types in JavaScript.
    * How to name Variables and Functions.
    * Working with string and other data types.
    * Randomization and logical operators.
    * For Loops, collections, and conditional statements.
    * Functions and Event listeners.
    * Discusing ECMAScripts (ES6).
    * Intermediate JavaScript.
    * Learn to use JavaScript Expressions, Operators, Statements and Declarations.
    * Object-Oriented Programming.
    * JavaScript Objects and Prototypes.
    * 'this', Scope and Closures.
    * JSON Objects.
    * Refactor and update code, Debugging existing code.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **DOCUMENT OBJECT MODEL (DOM)**
    * Learn basic tree structure of HTML websites.
    * Traversing the DOM using object notation.
    * Separation and best coding practices.
    * Manipulate and change the HTML elemnents on the page using the DOM.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **JQUERY**
    * Installing and using jQuery framework.
    * Learn about jQuery functionality.
    * Introduction to jQuery functions.
    * Manipulating text, styles, and element attributes via jQuery.
    * Creating animations and customisations with jQuery.
    * Use your jQuery knowledge to make interactive websites.
    * Responding to user input events with jQuery.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **THE UNIX COMMAND LINE**
    * How to use basic windows/bash commands in the Terminal.
    * How to manipulate files and folders within the command line.
    * How to download and install files to your computer using command line.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **GIT GITHUB AND VERSION CONTROL**
    * Using git for version control and collaboration with other developers.
    * Git commands such as cloning, pull, push, and many more.
    * How to use Github as a remote repository from your local computer.
    * Checking out code remotely and doing roll back to previous version.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **DEPLOYMENT**
    * Understanding hosing and deployment of web applications.
    * Hosting a static website with Github Pages.
    * Deploy a server based application onto Heroku.
    * Deploying Databases onto Mongo Atlas.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **NODE.JS**
    * Learn about different components of backend development, working with MVC app structure.
    * Apply concepts such as DataTypes, objects, methods, Object-Oriented Programming, and classes as it pertains to backend development.
    * Server Side JavaScript
    * Understanding of Node and how to use Node on the command line.
    * Node Package Mangager (NPM)
    * JavaScript Build Processes
    * Event Loop, Emitters, and Asynchronous Functionality.
    * File system manipulation via Node.
    * Modules.
    * Native Node Drivers.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **EXPRESS.JS**
    * Understanding how to install and implement Express within Node applications.
    * Creating Node and Express based servers
    * RESTful routing with Express
    * Understanding and use middleware for Node applications.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **APPLICATION PROGRAM INTERFACES (API)**
    * Understanding of what APIs are and how they function.
    * Indepth of HTTP.
    * How to call APIs.
    * Reading API documentation and understanding how to use existing APIs.
    * Basic API Authentication.
    * Server to Server communication.
    * JSON vs XML, how to send data in an object.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **Embedded JavaScript (EJS)**
    * Understanding what EJS does and how it is used with Node and Express.
    * Templating with EJS.
    * How to run code within EJS templates.
    * Reading API documentation and understanding how to use existing APIs.
    * Basic API Authentication.
    * Server to Server communication.
    * JSON vs XML, how to send data in an object.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **DATABASE FUNDEMENTALS**
    * Data Relationships.
    * Design a Data Model.
    * Relational Databases.
    * Alternative Databases.
    * Entity Relationship Modelling (ERM) and Object Relational Mapping (ORM)
    * How to seed a Database.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **SQL DATABASES**
    * How to initialize and setup an SQL database.
    * Database structure and table creation.
    * Working with Database Schemas.
    * Create-Read-Update-Delete(CRUD method).
    * Database Joins.
    * Quering SQL Databases.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **NoSQL DATABASES / MONGODB & MONGOOSE**
    * How to install MongoDB
    * Serialization.
    * How to model NoSQL data.
    * Document Databases (MongoDB).
    * Create-Read-Update-Delete(CRUD method).
    * NoSQL best practices.
    * Mongo Shell and command line usage.
    * Mapping relationships with MongoDB.
    * Utilizing an object-data modeling library (Mongoose) to work with you data.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **BUILDING RESTful API**
    * Understanding REST and guiding principles behind API design.
    * Learning to work with MongoDB, GUI Robo 3T.
    * Implementing GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE by creating your own APIs from scratch.
    * Understanding and using chained route handlers from Express.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **AUTHENTICATION & SECURITY**
    * Understanding the importance of authentication and keeping user details secured.
    * Learn about Encryption and how/why to use it to keep your databases secured.
    * Learn and implement Hashing and Salting with bcrypt.
    * Using Sessions and Cookies to persist user login sessions.
    * Setting up local authentication from scratch.
    * Implementing Passport to authenticate users effective and efficiently.
    * Understanding the use of enviroment variables to keep secrets secured.
    * Learn how to use OAuth 2.0 to login users via Google or Facebook.
    * Understand the difference between HTTP vs HTTPS.
    * How to generate and install your first SSL certificate.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

* **REACT.JS**
    * Learn frontend development with React.
    * Understanding when and how to use React Components.
    * Learn to pass "Props" through components and how to work with them.
    * Learn to write JSX and understanding the JSX syntax.
    * Understanding the React DOM compared to the the standard DOM.
    * How to manage React State.
    * What is the importance of React Hooks.
    * How to utilize React Hooks.
    * How to do conditional rendering within React.
    * Understand the main differences between class components and functional components.


