# Basic Structure
This course is split into three phases: Front-end, Back-end, and Full-stack. Throughout the course you will build web applications that solve real-world problems and are live for the public to use.

## Section 1: Front-End
The Front-end portion covers the fundamental concepts of web development, including front-end technologies, command line fundamentals, and APIs.
<p>&nbsp;</p>
By the end of this phase you will know the following:

* HTML and CSS
* Git, Github, and Version Control
* JavaScript
* Third-Party APIs (jQuery, Bootstrap)
* Server-side APIs, AJAX, and JSON

At the end of Front-end portion there will be a project where you build a front-end and implement a working API using other people's servers and APIs. 
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Section 2: Back-End
The Back-end portion will leave you with the skills necessary to engineer a complete full-stack web app. This section will include working with servers, databases, and many other back-end technologies as well as how to connect them to the front-end.
<p>&nbsp;</p>
By the end of this phase you will know the following:

* Node.js
* Object-Oriented Programing (OOP)
* Express.js
* MySQL
* Object-relational Mapping (ORM or Sequelize) 
* Model-View-Controller (MVC framework)
* Unit Testing
* Agile Methodology
* Heroku

At this point you will create a project combining your ability to create a front-end website with your new abilities to write server side code. This project will reinforce your existing skills for front-end development and solidify the concept of front-end and back-end dynamic. Doing this will make your front-end fundementals even more solid as you build on a stronger foundation.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Section 3: Full-Stack
The Full-Stack section focuses on optimizing your web applications for speed and efficiency, as well as prepare yourself to transistiopn into a career in web development.
<p>&nbsp;</p>
By the end of this phase you will know the following:

* Basics of Computer Science
* MongoDB and NoSQL
* Progressive Web Application (PWA)
* React
* MERN 
* React State & Hooks


To capstone the course you will create a full-stack application that utilizes a wide variety of languages, libraies, and technologies that you learned throughout the course. Good luck on your new career as a Full-Stack Web Developer!