# How to be Successful
First off congratulations on taking the first step into your new career. Your attitude and dedication will play a vital role in your success! As you take on the journey before you, you will need to align you attitude and expectations with reality. Here are a few tips to help ensure you get the value and success from this course and make it a rewarding experience.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Overcoming Frustration

The contents and skills covered in this course are very challenging, and designed to get you out of your comfort zone. Just remember that you will improve with time and practice. Approach each module as an opportunity to learn something and add to your list of skills. By the end of the course you will be a full fledged Web Developer!
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Taking Ownership of your Learning

You will get out of this class what you put into it. To be successful and learn the material you must put in the effort and dedication to make it happen. Like any new skill/talent coding requires practice, diligence, trial and error, and a strong desire to improve your skills. Remind your self that you are responsible for your learning and success. This course will cover some amazing technologies and go over best practices, but it is up to you to make it happen. Reassure yourself during times of discouragement that your skills are improving and you are getting better coding with each time you practice. Think of the big picture and why you signed up for the course to begin with. There is a reason you set out to learn such advanced techologies.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Put in the Time

Be ready to spend hours practicing and honing your skills. Think of this course as an investment into your future self and know that the more time you spend learning and improving your own skills, your one step closer to securing better opportunities in your future. Create a realistic schedule and course plan for yourself. Remember it is ok to take a break and come back to something. Get plenty of rest during your time off.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Mastering the Art of Googling

To be a good web developer it does not require you to memorize everything, but instead to be able to gather bits and pieces of information from various places such as documentation, forums, and other websites. It also requires the ability to quickly research a solution to a problem you are having. As specialize into a specifc area of web development, your googling skills become even more important. Don't forget to google it when you get stuck, or dont understand.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Make a Plan and Prioritize Self Care

This course will require that you spend hours and hours in front of your copmputer. Put together a schedule that will fit into your current resonsibilities and is realistic to follow. Setup a good comfortable place for you to do your studies, check your posture often, and drink lots of water. It is important to take breaks during your work at regular intervals. Get the rest you need and don't over work yourself.