# Challenges
There are two different kinds of challenges thoughout the course. Both are designed to prepare you for the real world as a web developer. <br/> The two types are:

* **Feature Requests/Update Existing** where you are given starter code in the ```develop``` directory within that module, which you will need to modify to match the acceptance criteria.
* **New Project/Starting from Scratch** where you will not be provided with starter code. Instead you will build these from scratch.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Challenge Structure
Challenges follow a format that is commonly used by development teams called **agile project management** to manage the project. This will be good practice to prepare you for the workflows you will experience as a professional full-stack web developer.

> To learn more about the agile method, you can do more research [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development).

Each challenge will contain the following:
> **User Story**: This is a short description of a feature, described from the perspective of the person who wants the capability to exist, typically a user or admin of the site. This will be described in a AS AN/ I WANT / SO THAT format.<br/> <br/>**EXAMPLE:** AS A shopper visiting amazon.com, I WANT to place items in my cart, SO THAT I can buy them.

>**Acceptance Criteria**: This is a list of requirements you need to complete to satisfy the scope of the work. They will entail the minumen requirements for a working solution. This is basically a checklist of the project. There are a variety of ways **Acceptance Criteria** will be presented. The most common format will be the **scenario-oriented criteria** which we gave an example of above in the **User Story**. You will become very familiar with this after completing a few challenges.

>**Mock-up**: This is a screenshot that demonstrates the design and functionality of the application that you will build for the challenge.
